Hi there.
This is Dave.
And welcome back.
Let's now look at how to install the latest version of Java on a 64 bit Linux operating system.
If you're using a different operating system like Mac or Windows, please refer to the lecture specific
to that operating system.
And in this demo, we will look at how to install Java on a 64 bit open to operating system.
Now if you're using a 32 bit Linux or any other distribution other than Ubuntu, then I will provide
you with some instructions at the end of the lecture along with the rest of the instructions in the
resources section.
For now, let's go ahead and install Java on a 64 bit open to operating system and it is going to be
a very easy task.
So we will look at the easiest way to do it, just three commands.
First thing is, let's go ahead and open the terminal and the shortcut is control alt dt for terminal
and here are the instructions.
So I'm just going to copy them.
And all we need is the first three instructions to install Java.
So let's look at this.
So it's sudo add apt repository space PPA Colon Linux uprising slash java.
So let's just copy this.
In case if you are prompted to enter a password, then just enter your system.
Password.
The center.
Now.
Let's copy the second one.
It's sudo space apt hyphen get space update and all these instructions will be available in the resources
section.
And the third one is to install Java.
So as of now, the latest version is Java ten, in case you'll see some other later version, then you
can just install that particular Java version.
So as of now, it's Java ten.
It may be something else and you would have to use the correct version here.
It says Java ten.
So you can Google for Linux uprising and you can easily find out what the exact name his name is for
this.
So for Java eight, it used to be Java eight here.
Yes.
You need to accept the licence agreement.
Say och, then left select.
Yes.
It may take slightly longer for you because I'm going to edit out some of the some of the installation
process here in the interest of time.
So it's installed.
Java has been installed.
So to look at the latest, what version of Java has been installed and to confirm whether Java has been
installed, we just need to execute this command.
It's Java C, which is for the Java compiler space hyphen version.
So here it is.
It says Java ten has been installed and it will be installed in slash user slash lib slash JVM folder.
That's just for your information.
Now, if you happen to see some other version, then you can execute this command in order to set Java
ten as the default.
It's a pseudo space apt space install space oracle hyphen java ten, hyphen set hyphen default.
Now, if at all, you want to uninstall that and install the installed version, then you need to execute
these two commands.
So we're not going to do it now, but I will include these instructions in the resources section.
So that's it.
That's how we would install Java, as simple as that.
Now, if you are using a 32 bit version of Linux, then I'll show you how to install that.
Instructions will be in the resources section, but I'll show you what files you need to download.
So for that you can just execute this command.
You name space hyphen A.
Let me execute this and it will tell you whether yours is a 32 bit or a 64 bit.
There you go.
I think here there was an extra hyphen.
So here it is.
It says X 86, underscore 64.
And if yours is a 32 bit, it would say something like 83, 86.
So that's all there is to determine whether yours is a 32 bit or 64 bit operating system.
Now, what you can do is just go to Google and search for JDK download and you will see results like
this.
So all of these are Oracle lengths.
Just click on this one.
So this is for Java SE eight and this is for Java C ten.
But let's click this.
So here it is.
The latest version as of now is JDK and you can click on this one.
So it has JDK and two versions of Java, but JDK is what we need to download because we are going to
develop Java programs.
Git is for executing Java programs.
You cannot develop Java programs with that.
So you would have to download this.
So if you are installing a different version of Linux other than Ubuntu, then you will click this.
But for 32 bit, the latest version that we can use is a Java eight.
So Java eight is here when you scroll down because the later versions of Java like Java ten do not support
32 bit OS.
So this is the only option that you have and once again you have the same format.
Jade can to is just click on JDK here.
Now here you need to just accept the license agreement.
And for 32 bit we have x86 here.
So you would download one of these to our RPM or to and instructions will be given in the resources
section.
So so you just need to accept the license agreement here.
Now if it is 64 bit, you can actually download one of these too.
For 64 bit it's 64 and 432 bit it's x 86 for about 464.
You can download the latest version instead of Java eight.
So once again, just click on JDC.
So here you have the two versions for Linux.
So there is no 32 bit here.
So just accept the license agreement and you can download one of these and the instructions will be
provided in the resources section.
So but what we have seen is the easiest way to install Java on Ubuntu and that's about it.
Thank you.
And see you in the next lecture.